Ursula von der Leyen was heckled today by Brexit Party MEPs as she said she was 'ready' to further delay the UK's departure from the EU – as Britain appeared ever more likely to be heading for a No Deal divorce.
Boris Johnson, the favourite to be the next prime minister, last night recommitted to his 'do or die' pledge to deliver Brexit with or without a deal by October 31 as he also ruled out holding an election before the UK has left the bloc.
The former foreign secretary and his rival Jeremy Hunt also said they could not agree to a new deal with the EU which included the Irish border backstop as they said the controversial protocol was 'dead'.
But with Brussels ice cold on the prospect of removing the backstop and Mrs von der Leyen insistent that a delay would only be granted for a 'good reason' like an election or second referendum, a disorderly split on October 31 is now a distinct possibility.
Mrs von der Leyen used a speech to the European Parliament this morning to try to persuade MEPs to make her the bloc's next boss as she said a further Brexit delay was an option.
Nigel Farage, the leader of the Brexit Party, said Mrs von der Leyen had 'just made Brexit a lot more popular' as he also accused her of pushing an 'updated form of communism'.
She faces a crunch vote this afternoon when she will need to win the support of a majority of MEPs in order to be installed as Jean-Claude Juncker's replacement as president of the European Commission.
The difficulty of the task facing the outgoing German defence minister was highlighted by the reaction she faced when she said she would be open to pushing back Brexit.
The difficulty of the task facing the outgoing German defence minister was highlighted by the reaction she faced when she said she would be open to pushing back Brexit.
Mr Farage and the rest of the Brexit Party's 29 MEPs responded with jeering and howls of derision while other members of the parliament only gave her muted applause.
Mr Farage and the rest of the Brexit Party's 29 MEPs responded with jeering and howls of derision while other members of the parliament only gave her muted applause.
Mrs von der Leyen said of the 2016 EU referendum result: 'This is a serious decision. We regret it but we respect it. Since then together with the current government  of the UK the EU has worked hard to organise the orderly departure of the UK.
'The Withdrawal Agreement concluded with the government of the UK provides certainty where Brexit created uncertainty.
'In preserving the rights of citizens and in preserving peace and stability on the island of Ireland, these two priorities are mine too.
'However, I stand ready for further extension of the withdrawal date should more time be required for a good reason.'
Brexit-backing MEPs could be heard shouting 'No!' and booing Mrs von der Leyen while Mr Farage later used his speech to the European Parliament to claim she had 'just made Brexit a lot more popular'.
The leader of the Brexit Party told MEPs in Strasbourg: 'What you have seen from Ursula von der Leyen today is an attempt by the European Union to take control of every single aspect of our lives.
'She wants to build a centralised, undemocratic, updated form of communism where the state controls everything, where nation state parliaments will cease to have any relevance at all.
'I have to say from our perspective in some ways I am really rather pleased because you have just made Brexit a lot more popular in the United Kingdom. Thank god we are leaving.'
Mr Farage also accused Mrs von der Leyen of being a ‘fanatic for building a European army’ as he urged MEPs to reject her candidacy.
Mrs von der Leyen hit back and said: ‘To be quite honest with you, having listened to the last speaker, that provides further proof of how important it is to work closely with our British colleagues in the future.
'But I think Mr Farage we can probably do without what you have got to say here.'
Mrs von der Leyen's comments on the Brexit deadline will be seen as a major boost for Remain campaigners because they suggest a No Deal divorce is not necessarily inevitable.
However, Mr Johnson's and Mr Hunt's comments at the final head-to-head showdown of the Tory leadership campaign last night put the UK and the EU on a collision course, with No Deal the potential outcome.
Mrs May tried to persuade Brussels to make significant changes to the backstop earlier this year in a bid to make her deal more palatable to MPs.
But ultimately her attempts failed as her agreement was rejected by the House of Commons on three separate occasions.
But the two Tory challengers have now made clear that changes to the border protocol will not be enough for them to sign up to a new deal.
Asked if he could accept a time limit on the backstop, Mr Johnson said: 'The answer is no. The problem is really fundamental. It needs to come out.'
Mr Hunt agreed and said the 'backstop, as it is, is dead' and added: 'I don't think tweaking it with a time limit will do the trick.'
The backstop was included in the original Brexit deal as a last resort measure to be used in the event no overall trade deal has been struck by the two sides by the end of the transition period.
It would effectively see existing EU rules on customs kept in place to ensure frictionless trade on the island of Ireland could continue and prevent the return of a hard border.
But Brexiteers hate it because if implemented it would last indefinitely, restrict the UK's ability to strike its own trade deal and getting out of it would require the agreement of both sides.